Here is the current predicament: 

I don't believe the original Experiment 1 (run a between-subject comparision of listener's speech perception adaptation to a talker presented with prosocial primes vs neutral primes) would work if there is no evidence that speech perception adaptation is constrained in any way by having to adapt to 2 talkers at once. However, this arguably isn't proven --I think. It's unlikely, but I'm not sure if we could test what maximal adaptation would be-- and maybe adapting to two talkers at the same time in an experiment like this would constrain adaptation to both talkers if there were no prime present, if that makes sense. Cummings & Theodore, in press did compare adaptation to two talkers in the same experiment, but I do not beleieve they compared the rate/degree of adapation to the two talkers with the rate/degree of adaptation of a listener only having to adapt to one talker. Also, rate of adaptation between the prosocial and neutral conditions could theoretically be looked at as an alternative, though my concern is how if adaptation occurs too quickly, especially in a phoneme that's interpreted as talker-specific, like s-ʃ.


So, if we were to run Experiment 1, I came up with two possible follow-up experiments: 

If there is a difference between conditions in Experiment 1, procede to Experiment 2 with the two talkers presented interleaved of one another. The code exists for prolific to implement this structure (as well as that for Experiment 1, I believe), and the stimuli from Kraljic & Samuel, 2005 could be used in this case if I were to have permission to use them.

If there does not appear to be a difference between conditions in Experiment 1, then this may possibly be due to a listener maximally adapting to both talkers in the span of the experiment. If it is a confound that is responsible for these results, I think there's the highest liklihood it's that, at least. In that case, I suggest Experiment 3a and 3b instead of Experiment 2. Experiment 3 would introduce simultaneous speech during trials, with the intention of straining listeners' attention, and by extension increasing the difficulty of speech perception adpatation. Experiment 3a would attempt to confirm that listener's adapt more to one talker than another when hearing two talkers at once and being instructed to listen to one of the voices. Experiment 3b then will introduce prosocial primes with no instruction as to which voice participants should attend to. 

However, I think this complicates things significantly. My biggest concern is that I think it would work best to create new s-ʃ stimuli (as suggested in Design.Proposal_RS 06.21) consisting of 3 minimal pairs. I wrote out how the vowels, gender, and ear the voice is speaking into can be counterbalanced, but I do think that creating new stims will not be easy. I am hoping to try making some recordings following Kraljic & Samuel, 2005*. I could do that in the meantime while starting with Experiment 1, maybe? But I think it would be important for the stims to be unlabeled (be able to be interpreted as either s or  ʃ as the "correct" pronunciation). As far as I am aware, that is not the case. Also, Experiment 3a could further add validity to Experiment 3b, matching Talker 1's Xs with Talker 2's s would in theory inhibit adpatation to Talker 1's accent (and vice versa for Talker 2), maybe? I think the matching I came up with would work well, and hopefully that isn't an overconfident statement! I wanted to use atleast two minimal pairs (I used the first phoneme as the differentiating factor in my example because those were the easiest to think of; Idk if that make the task more difficult when listening to two talkers due to the lack of prior context) for each vowel pairing for validity reasons, and it would also be useful in counterbalancing which ear the talker is heard in. Then I matched each vowel minimal pair with the phoneme compliment (e.g., Sort + Shift & Sore + Shelf) so that hopefully any possible effect of matching certain vowels will be negated. 

*as of this morning, 06.23, minimal pair stims from McAuliffe and Babel 2015 could also be an option as well