Florian - Notes on Potential Results


Each listener will see 10 critical S and 10 critical SH trials. All of them will be on ear A and all of them will be by the attended talker (I mean the same is true for the other ear and the other talker, but I’m saying imagine that the attended talker is the one for which all critical trials are on ear A).

So, now we need 60 filler pairs, of which 40 have non-word fillers for the attended talker (and words for the unattended talker) fillers and 20 have word fillers for the attended talker  (and non-word fillers for the unattended talker).

20 of the fillers pairs with non-word fillers for the attended talker will be played with the attended talker on ear A. This means that on ear A, 50% of trials have (critical) words for the attended talker and 50% have (filler) non-words for the attended talker (for the unattended talker all trials have words).

Of the remaining 40 filler pairs, 50% will have filler words for the attended talker and 50% will have filler non-words for the attended talker (same for the unattended talker), BUT all of them will have the attended talker on ear B.

Thus, overall the correct answers for the attended talker will be 50% word and 50% non-word (for the unattended talker, it will be 75% word, and 25% non-word; there is no way of avoiding this imbalance under our current design since the critical pairs always are words for both speakers and since the non-critical filler trials always have different word status for the two talkers; similarly, ear A will have 50% words and 50% non-words, but ear B will have 75% words and 25% non-words).

And the attended talker will be 50% of the time in ear A and 50% of the time in ear B.

As far as I can see, this is the best we can do, as it balances everything for the attended talker.


What does this mean for the expected chance performance?

If someone clicks randomly, they will be 50% correct (on average) with regard to either talker.

If someone always listens to the unattended talker and correctly clicks for that talker, they will be 25% correct for the attended talker (only on the critical trials)

If someone always listens to the attended talker and correctly clicks for that talker, they will be 100% correct for the attended talker.


What does it mean for various strategies?

If someone clicks 100% word, they will 50 % correct with regard to the attended talker (and 75% correct for the unattended talker)

If someone clicks 100% non-word, they will be 50% correct with regard to the attended talker (and 25% correct for the unattended talker).

If someone always listens to ear A (the one the attended talker happens to have the critical trials on), they will be 50% correct with regard to the attended talker.

If someone always listens to ear B (in a sense, the ‘wrong’ ear since it will mean they will miss the critical trials for the attended talker, they will be 75% correct (only on the critical trials). This part is not ideal.

Thus performance significantly above 50% relative to the attended talker is rules out chance. Performance significantly above 75% relative to the attended talker rules out attending one ear (the ‘wrong’ ear, no less). Perfect performance is 100%. 

I think this is a good start. It will also give us information whether someone is listening to just one talker during exposure. There are other designs that can be better in this regard but (as far as I can see) they require pairing shifted trials with filler trials.



~*~

I had been trying to balance the types of trials/words (i.e., critical, filler, and nonwords) across the talkers, rather than how the participants responses would reflect how they performed during the experiment. In retrospect, that makes a lot more sense when it comes to analyzing results:  it would be more important to focus on what the responses would look like if the participant performed the task correctly. Though we could see adaptation in both talkers, the filler/nonwords trials theoretically shouldn't contribute to how a listener adapts to the unattended talker either, so it's not as important to balance the word/trial types across conditions. And that's also related to why we could use word/nonwords as response options for all the trials: adaptation is based on exposure to the talker, not the active categorization (which we could collect data on incrementally in another paradigm, like in 206, but isn't necessary for listener's to adapt to talkers).


